Hello everyone and thank you for joining us for
this tutorial on the Globus File Transfer Service.
We'll start at the Research
Computing learning portal.
We will go through installing
a Globus personal connector,
connecting to UVA data transfer nodes or DTNs,
transferring files, and then
we'll go over some common
errors that you might experience in using Globus.
Globus is a non-profit service for fast,
secure, and reliable data transfer.
It allows you to transfer files
between one computer to another,
such as between your laptop or lab workstation and
our central computing resources, Rivanna or Ivy.
Globus has several advantages, especially
for transferring large files or folders.
It is fast, it is error correcting,
and it runs in the background.
Using a VPN is not needed to
transfer to and from UVA systems.
In fact, the high-security VPN cannot
be enabled when you are using Globus.
Globus is approved for transferring sensitive
data to or from the UVA high-security zone
since our DTNs encrypt files in transit,
so PII and HIPAA data are protected.
Now let's go over some basic Globus terminology.
A collection refers to a computer
server or folder containing data.
A collection can exist on
Rivanna or your personal machine.
Your personal collection is a set
of folders on your local computer.
Globus starts with a default set
of folders but you can add more.
The personal connector is a software package
that you install to your local computer.
It runs in the background and manages
transfers to and from that computer.
UVA Standard Security Storage is
the collection for Rivanna storage
as well as Research Standard
and Research Project storage.
UVA Ivy DTN is the collection
for Ivy central storage.
A shared collection is a collection that
you can share with other Globus users.
We'll start by installing the Globus
personal connector on a computer.
In this example I will be
installing it on a Windows computer.
First, I'll open this link and
download Globus Connect Personal.
Be sure it's for your operating system.
Once it is downloaded, install it in
the usual way for your operating system.
You must provide a unique name
to your personal collection.
Make it distinctive and
easy to find with a search.
The name that I choose for my
collection is "eubanksdesktop".
Once the installation completes, you can add
more folders to your collection if you wish.
Right click the Globus icon and select
Options. Under Access, click the plus icon.
When the dialog box appears,
browse to the folder you want to make
accessible to Globus and click "Choose".
We are now ready to transfer files.
We'll go to the Globus website.
Click "Login" at the upper right.
You should sign in under "Use your
existing organizational login".
Type "University of Virginia" as the organization.
This will bring up a NetBadge login page.
Once logged in, you'll be in the File Manager.
In the collection text box, start typing
the name of your personal collection.
For this example, I will be transferring files
to Rivanna, but the process is the same for Ivy.
Once it appears, the icon on the left
should be green, showing that it's active.
Here we see the contents of the default directory,
which is Documents for Windows and macOS.
I can navigate to other folders starting
from the up arrow, up one folder icon.
Suppose I want to transfer the JeffersonAI folder.
First I must select a destination.
Go to the collections text box
on the right and start typing.
A search box will appear.
For standard security storage,
choose UVA Standard Security Storage.
The green icon on the left confirms it's active,
while the green columns icon on the right
indicates it's a managed collection.
Choose that collection.
You should be returned to the file manager page.
The standard security folders to
which you have access will fill in.
You may need to click through to your specific
folder in home, scratch, and so forth.
I'll now select my JeffersonAI folder
in my personal collection pane,
select a folder in my UVA storage if
I want it deeper than the top level,
then click start with the arrow
pointing towards the destination.
The transfer should begin automatically.
Transfers to and from the Ivy DTN are done
the same way, but we would start by choosing
that DTN as the destination.
You can share folders on the managed DTNs.
Only managed DTNs can create shared collections.
You cannot share folders from
your personal collection.
Check the box by the folder
or file you wish to share.
Click the share icon on the left of the pane.
You will be asked to create a collection name.
As usual, be sure it is unique and memorable.
You can then invite people to join the collection.
Now let's talk about some common
errors that we have with Globus.
So if you have more questions, you
can simply go to this website and get
a more in-depth answer to some of your
problems that you may be encountering.
Health System users may find that there's a
firewall that prevents Globus from connecting.
You'll need to ask HIT to complete
the connector installation for you.
It's important to note as
well that Globus does not work
while connected to the UVA High Security VPN.
Be sure to disconnect from the High
Security VPN before attempting a transfer.
Another common error is that you may
find your transferred folders are empty.
Most often this happens because you
have a file somewhere in that folder
with bad permissions or bad
characters in the file name.
If you see this, when you start your transfer,
be sure to choose "Skip files
with errors" in the options.
And then finally, if you can't connect
to UVA Standard Security Storage at all,
it might be because your
eServices account has expired.
You can refer to the notes
at the RC Learning site.
Globus also has a lot of
documentation at their site.
Thank you for watching this
tutorial and we hope it was helpful.